31. Next Permutation

A permutation of an array of integers is an arrangement of its members into a sequence or linear order.

For example, for arr = [1,2,3], the following are all the permutations of arr: [1,2,3], [1,3,2], [2, 1, 3], [2, 3, 1], [3,1,2], [3,2,1].

The next permutation of an array of integers is the next lexicographically greater permutation of its integer. More formally, if all the permutations of the array are sorted in one container according to their lexicographical order, then the next permutation of that array is the permutation that follows it in the sorted container. If such arrangement is not possible, the array must be rearranged as the lowest possible order (i.e., sorted in ascending order).

For example, the next permutation of arr = [1,2,3] is [1,3,2].
Similarly, the next permutation of arr = [2,3,1] is [3,1,2].
While the next permutation of arr = [3,2,1] is [1,2,3] because [3,2,1] does not have a lexicographical larger rearrangement.
Given an array of integers nums, find the next permutation of nums.

The replacement must be in place and use only constant extra memory.

分析:

1. 从后往前找到第一个 nums[i] < nums[i+1] 的数, nums[i] 就是要被交换的数
2. 再从后面往前找到第一个 大于 nums[i] 的数nums[j] , 与 nums[i] 进行交换
3. 由于nums[i] 被交换到后面导致后面的顺序变了, 所以将后面的所有数字进行排序就得到下一个排列了

```python
class Solution:
    def nextPermutation(self, nums: List[int]) -> None:
        """
        Do not return anything, modify nums in-place instead.
        """
        l = len(nums)
        if l == 1:
            return 
        i = l - 2
        while i >= 0 and nums[i] >= nums[i+1]: # 找到第一个: 后一个数大于前一个数  比如: 1,2,3, 就是要被交换的位置
            i -= 1
        if i == -1: # 如果最后都没有找到, 说明数组是逆序, 直接reverse变成正序就是下一个最小的数字
            nums.reverse()
        else:
            j = l - 1
            while j > i and nums[j] <= nums[i]: # 从后面找到第一个比 nums[i] 大的数, 就是交换到前面的数
                j -= 1
            nums[i], nums[j] = nums[j], nums[i] # 交换
            nums[i+1:l] = sorted(nums[i+1:l]) # 将i以后的数字排序
```